so I'm now joined by Dr Ahmed Al zayan
he's an orthopedic specialist and
surgeon at alaa
hospital I know you're very busy very
difficult time we appreciate you
speaking to us can you start by telling
me the situation in your hospital
regarding the patients and the supplies
of medicines and anesthetics and the the
tools that you need to to treat your
patients
today is the 2020th day of the war in
Gaza St as you
know uh in the past we lagged medical
equipment and the nature of injuries are
very hard very difficult to deal with
amputated Limbs and various injuries in
different parts of the body torso and
below and today with the uh closing of
Crossings we have very difficult and
dire medical situation with the
displacement of people to RAF the
situation is exacerbating there is a
lack in supplies in anesthetics and even
medical staff all these constitute a
burden on the health sector in Gaza
which might lead to its collapse which
is already in a state of collapse since
the beginning of the
war it's a very difficult situation and
it unbelievable challenges and
difficulties facing surgeons and medical
workers like yourselves who have
remained in place to to treat patients
at at Great risk to your own uh personal
safety now I want to ask you about what
do you have seen in the past few days in
your hospital the alak hospital in der
Al Bala because uh we are seeing
thousands of Palestinians fleeing the
southern area of Rafa they are pouring
into the central parts of Gaza where as
you say food water medical supplies
already scarce are you seeing a massive
influx of people to your
facility that's true there is a large
influx of displacements in the vicinity
of alaa Hospital large number of
displaced people within the hospital in
the vicinity of the hospital and all
this constitute a pressure U on the
health care sector in addition to the
lack of food supplies and increase and
inflated
prices border crossings are closed right
now or they are effectively blocked un
agencies humanitarian agencies are
saying operations are going to be
crippled that's it we're going to go
from very little coming in to absolutely
nothing except maybe the supplies that
are already
there how many more days would you give
it before you go into what is already
already in a critical difficult
situation before you are unable to treat
anyone before you have to turn patients
away how many days would you give it say
here
[Music]
I don't believe we can last for longer
than a day or two due to this uh um
severe lacking especially due to the
lacking of surgical tools and many other
tools without which we can't even deal
with the large number of injuries that
we are receiving and due to the pressure
due to the displacement of large number
of people to words alaa hospital and its
vicinity can I ask you doctor about how
you are coping you have seen a great
deal in recent months uh we are seeing
scenes of uh children who have been
wounded children who have been killed as
you say there are amputations taking
place without any anesthetic how how are
you coping not just with the physical
exhaustion but also mentally and
[Music]
emotionally from day one into this war
we are experiencing a catastrophic
situation a large number of injuries and
even the health sector prior to the War
uh was lacking a lot in terms of
supplies and tools with the war the
conditions and the situation became even
worse and now we are into the eighth
month uh now the medical staff are overe
exhausted some of them have been killed
or arrested or injured and this and this
constitute a lacking in the Health Care
system and leads to its collapse day by
day the longer the war lasts things
would get even worse and worse as you
know hospitals were operational in the
past now abuu andar hospital is out of
service this would exacerbate and worsen
the situation across all hospitals such
as alaxa
Hospital doctor I want to thank you for
speaking to us uh you know we do
appreciate it and um you know maybe
maybe we can speak again about your
situation there if you can spare us the
time orthopedic surgeon Ahmed Al xan
joining us from uh the Alexa Hospital in
daral Bala this is in central Gaza